# Artificial_Intelligence_in_Public_Perspective_of_COVID-19_Vaccine
The primary method of preventing communicable infectious diseases is vaccination, but historically, the public has been reluctant to get vaccines, and the COVID-19 vaccine is no different. It has been established that social media use contributes to the low acceptability of vaccines. To better understand public perceptions, concerns, and emotions that may affect the achievement of mental strength, this study aims to review how artificial intelligence was able to identify the topics and sentiments in the public discussion on social media about the COVID-19 vaccine as well as any salient changes in those topics and sentiments over time. 
Methods: Research works and analysis carried out during the pandemic to identify the public opinion on the COVID-19 vaccine will be critically reviewed. Methods used in the retrieval of data such as Twitter API will be discussed, applications used for sentiment analysis like VADER (Valence Aware Dictionary for Sentiment Reasoning) will be reviewed, and methods used for topic modelling such as LDA (Latent Dirichlet Allocation) will also be discussed. At the end of the review, significant drawbacks and future advancements will be highlighted.
Results: Sentiment analysis has been applied to various areas over time like social media monitoring, automobile/vehicle-based services, product/service review, travel/tourism-based services, healthcare-based services, and financial services. As for topic modelling, it is likely to remain a crucial method for examining and comprehending enormous volumes of text data in the future. The future of topic modelling analysis is expected to be shaped by several factors. One tendency is the expansion of massive datasets' accessibility and the improvement of computer resources, which will allow for the creation of more advanced and precise subject-modelling methods. Finally, the increased interest in multilingual and cross-lingual analysis will probably spur the creation of word clouds that facilitate cross-lingual comparison and analysis and can handle several languages.
Conclusions: This work has discussed the essential use of Artificial Intelligence and other applications during COVID-19 to understand the public perception of the COVID-19 vaccine. Overall, the development of more potent computational resources, the growing relevance of interpretability and explainability in machine learning, and the expanding availability of huge datasets are anticipated to be the driving forces behind the future of AI in sentiment analysis and topic modelling.
